un agencies are preparing to start a
mass polio vaccination program in Gaza
this weekend after Israel and Hamas
agreed to a series of three-day
localized pauses in fighting the World
Health Organization officials have said
that 1.2 million polio vaccine doses
have already been delivered to Gaza
ahead of the rollout the goal is to
vaccinate more than 600,000 children
after the first case of polio in 25
years was discovered in Gaza Lucy
Williamson
reports born a month before the Gaza War
Began Abdul Rahman has played a role in
pausing it something world leaders have
struggled to do earlier this month Abdul
Rahman was diagnosed with polio the
first case in Gaza for 25
years the family nine children in all
live in a camp in central Gaza displaced
multiple times from their home in the
north the constant moving disrupted his
vaccinations his mother says others in
the camp are afraid and stop their
children playing with
him the virus stopped his progress he
stopped sitting stopped walking stopped
crawling and stopped moving I want him
to be treated he wants to live and walk
like other children abdur rahman's
diagnosis is raised fresh alarm over
conditions in gaza's camps the phased PA
in fighting with will allow Medics to
vaccinate more than half a million
children in stages across the territory
but the conditions that caused this
crisis are worsening say Aid
organizations and their Solutions are
not straightforward due to the
insecurity the damage the road
infrastructure and and population
displacement but also based on on our
experience with this kind of campaigns
uh globally and worldwide the three days
might not be enough
to to achieve adequate
vaccination Israel's prime minister was
clear that this was not a ceasefire the
war has so far been resistant to both
diplomacy and disease but preventing
another layer of tragedy is seen as one
small victory what the eu's foreign
policy chief called a drop of Hope in a
sea of
Despair Lucy Williamson BBC News
Janine well Sam Rose director of
planning it unra told me more about the
vaccination program I mean we're deeply
deeply concerned about the the levels at
which it can be it might may be at
there's one confirmed case that that
your reporter referred to there may be
may be many more uh because the health
system here has been decimated largely
over the past 10 months the bombardments
the destruction of of clinics the
collapse of water and and and sewage so
Solid Waste Management infrastructure
the malnutrition these are precisely the
conditions in which a vaccine like this
reemerges a vaccine which had been
eradicated for more than 25 years inside
the Gaza Strip has reemerged so we're
deeply deeply concerned and at the same
time we welcome so much as everyone here
does the rest bite for for just a small
amount of time from the bombings from
the evacuation orders that we hope will
allow us to administer a successful
campaign working closely with the World
Health Organization UNICEF the the
Ministry of Health and and and other
partners but as you said this is a
massive massive effort we just really
really hope that that that it will be
successful for the children we're
vaccinating the the disease reemerging
of course rather than the vaccine
reemerging but just just explain for us
how you actually get to all the children
and how can you be sure that that all
the children there will be reached is is
three days
enough three days perhaps isn't enough
as your previous interview he said and
this will be three days across three
different areas of the Gaza Strip the
southern governorates the middle
governorates and the the northern
governorates the vaccines most of them
have now arrived in Gaza the the the
Personnel who are who will administer
those vaccines who will register the
children who are raising awareness
amongst the community have been hired
have been trained are are out there but
doing anything in Gaza right right now
is incredibly difficult surviving the
night is is is is very difficult so we
Face a number of of challenges the fact
that there will be causes humanitarian
pauses the fact that there will be no uh
evacuation orders make our lives more
easy it means that we can distribute the
the vaccines the fuel the staff to the
areas in which they need to go and unra
my organization will be vaccinating up
to half of these children we've taken on
about 1,00 of our Personnel will be
involved and we'll be vaccinating at our
primary health clinics that we have at
Health points that we've set up in areas
that people have been vaccinated to we
have mobile teams who work in the dozens
and dozens of schools where hundreds of
thousands of people Sheltering and we
will do what would previously have been
house to house but now is tent to tent
largely given the realities of the
situation in which people live but
reaching that more or less M magic
number of 90% of children will be very
difficult because we don't quite know
how many children there are we don't
know how many are still alive we
certainly don't know precisely anyway
Sam Rose there director of planning at
unra